
MediTrex

Andrea Orlandi, Agnese Maria Capparelli, 
Rosapia Laudati, Samuele Cervo 

Laboratory of Advanced Programming 2023/2024


Description and high level specification

MediRex is an application aimed to improve the management of medical treatments and personal health conditions. It allows patients to efficiently keep track of their medications, check-ups, symptoms and vitals. Moreover, it facilitates communication between patients and doctors and provides a complete overview of personal health.
MediRex will help a user to choose the most advisable doctor for each of their requests and allows them to be followed by a GP. Moreover, a user can always change their own GP, in agreement with the new chosen doctor.

There are different types of users in the application:
unregistered user
user registered as patient
user registered as GP (general practitioner)
user registered as specialized doctor

An unregistered user can access the home page, where there are news and the daily medical articles, and the registration page of the application.

If they are registered as a patient, they must enter their personal data and basic health data. They have access to their symptoms diary to record and monitor their symptoms, and also their medical records to visualize them. They can manage therapies, entering details on prescribed medications and receiving reminders for doses. Moreover, they can access the appointments calendar to view and manage doctor’s visits and other health-related commitments. 

If they are registered as GP, they can create, check and modify the patients’ medical records, can make medical prescriptions and can communicate with the patients. They can access the calendar with appointments for the relevant patients.

If they are registered as a specialized doctor, they must write a biography that contains information about their specialization. They can give patients therapies, access their medical records to view it, provide support and communicate with them. They can access the calendar with appointments for the relevant patients.

Provided Services

It provides many features, such that: 

Therapy Management: Users have the possibility to add details to their prescribed medications, set alarms for each dose they need to observe and get notifications for drug intakes.

Symptoms Diary: An interactive diary where users can daily register their symptoms and have a clear picture of their health situation.

Medical Records: GP compiles and manages this document to have a comprehensive overview of a patient’s medical history.  

Appointments Calendar: An own calendar to keep track of personal doctor’s appointments, special visits, blood work...

Vitals Monitoring: Users can monitor their vitals, such that blood pressure, blood sugar, heart rate.

Communication Patient-Doctor: Users can open a communication channel with a doctor, sending questions, reporting symptoms and ask for a consultation.

Graphs: Users have the possibility to consult graphs that report their medical situation based on the data entered over time.


FILE INFO
- build_start.bat/sh:   will build and start the project.
- generalReset.bat/sh:  will remove all volumes and reset to default the database and the project
- removeAll.bat/sh:     will remove all the volumes and postgres/data


INSTRUCTION

1) Run Docker Engine
2) From terminal:
    - For windows users       ./build_start.bat
    - For linux/macos users   sh ./build_start.sh
3) Wait postgres create and initializate the DB and nodes starts (this take about 3 minutes)
4) Go to http://localhost/
5) Several user are inserted into default database:
    - Doctor User:
        . username: <doc@meditrex.it>
        . password: <123>
    - Patient User:
        . username: <pat@meditrex.it>
        . password: <123>